---
layout: post
title: SOLID
date: 2015-07-05 18:40
summary: Single responsibility principle, open/closed principle, Liskov substitution principle, interface segregation principle, dependency inversion principle
categories:	reading
tags:	-design pattern
---

Five basic principles of Object-Oriented programing and design.
When these principles applied together, will create a system that is easy to maintain and extend over times. SOLID are the guidelines that can be applied while working on software to remove code smells by causing the programmer to refactor the software's source code until it is both legible and extensible.

 * **S: Single responsibility principle**
 	a <a class="mw-redirect" title="Class (computer science)" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Class_(computer_science)">class</a> should have only a single responsibility (i.e. only one potential change in the software's  specification should be able to affect the specification of the class)
    >there should not be more than one reason for a class to change, or a class should always handle single functionality. If you put more than one functionality in one Class in Java  it introduce coupling between two functionality and even if you change one functionality there is chance you broke coupled functionality,  which require another round of testing to avoid any surprise on production environment.

 * **0: open/closed principle**
 	“software entities … should be open for extension, but closed for modification.”
 * **L: Liskov substitution principle**
 	“objects in a program should be replaceable with instances of their subtypes without altering the correctness of that program.”
 	>Subtypes must be substitutable for super type i.e. methods or functions which uses super class type must be able to work with object of sub class without any issue". LSP is closely related to Single responsibility principle and Interface Segregation Principle. If a class has more functionality than subclass might not support some of the functionality ,and does violated LSP. In order to follow LSP SOLID design principle, derived class or sub class must enhance functionality, but not reduce them. LSP represent "L" on SOLID acronym.

 * **I: interface segregation principle**
 	“many client-specific interfaces are better than one general-purpose interface.”
    >a client should not implement an interface, if it doesn't use that. This happens mostly when one interface contains more than one functionality, and client only need one functionality and not other.Interface design is tricky job because once you release your interface you can not change it without breaking all implementation. Another benefit of this design principle in Java is, interface has disadvantage to implement all method before any class can use it so having single functionality means less method to implement.

 * **D: dependency inversion principle**
 	one should “Depend upon Abstractions. Do not depend upon concretions.”

